Welcome in this lecture.
We are going to be seeing how we can add more information to our server line at the moment it looks
really uneed because there's very little spacing.
But we have got here up to this point and my cursor we've got the name of the server.
To this point and my cursor from here to here we've got the user name all the way up to here actually
and then we've got two of two which is telling us incorrectly.
But it is telling us a number of connections vs. a total number of connections So let's dive in and
see how we can achieve this.
So the next thing I want is to be able to do is populate that server list with real data.
Now to do this first thing we need to do is actually have a look at how we are testing this because
currently we've got steam enabled but steam can be a bit of a pain in the backside when you are trying
to test things locally because you can't have multiple instances open on the same computer.
The reason for that there's only one steam client running and they will only let you run one steam client.
So the way we can do this is fairly straightforward.
We need to go to power shell and we need to be launching it from the power shell and we're going to
do is we are going to be launching with this extra option called dasch no steam.
If you do that go ahead and launch the game then when it launches up you're going to see that we'll
be getting the noell subsystem instead of steam running.
This means that we can run multiple instances without steam which is useful for testing it out locally.
So let's go and have a look at the law AGs for that paper go over to my logs you can see that the found
subsystem is steam.
Now I want to just test that we can make a connection using this no steam.
So let's launch up another instance and wait for it to fully launch to fruition.
And in the meantime I can go in to my first game and use it to host a session.
Which hole do you get them hosting a session.
My second incidence is spawning up right now.
And from there I can go to the join menu and let's have a look at whether we can find it or not.
Doesn't seem to be showing up anything other than our test servers so that reminds me that we need to
go into puzzle platforms go to our game is the key and remove said tests.
We don't need those anymore.
We were just using them for our testing the menu in the last lecture.
Now you will see that we cannot find the server in here.
So let's go ahead and close down these two games and we can have a look at why that is the case.
If we go up a little bit then we will see that the reason for this is that our land match is set to
false.
While we had steam because that makes sense we're not doing land mass as we were doing Internet matches.
Now obviously on the knoll system we can only do land matches so when we have land that set to false
things don't work.
So what we need to do is conditionally set land match to true when we're using the noll's subsystem
that way we can easily switch between steam and not steam for testing just by adding that command line
argument.
Now you will recall that we kind of know how to do this because when we were getting our subsystem we
could get the name of that subsystem and that should do we should be able to check whether that name
is equal to.
So that is what I am going to do.
I'm going to go ahead and get a copy of the subsystem.
So let's do that.
It should not be null because we've got our session interface so we were able to get it in the past.
So I'm going to go ahead and get the subsystem.
I don't even need to store it in a pointer really because we're just using it to get that shared pointer.
Then we can dereference it and we can do a get things like name or see it go by platform chat interfaces
all these different interfaces that we can get.
But there should be in here the name isn't a search for Name get instance name get named in interface
gets subsystem then that's the one we want and we want to check that that is equal to.
No.
Because if that is equal to now then we want to land match to be true so we can do it if equal now then
we are going to set the setting LAN match to be true.
And otherwise we are going to set it to false.
Like so I move my setting code in there.
And we are going to build that.
So that build has completed lets launch up to games with no steam and see whether they can see each
other.
Now that we also don't have those test servers so they've launched up on going to host with one of the
servers one of the games and the other one.
I'm going to go ahead and hit the join menu and hope for it to populate with something meaningful.
There we go.
We have got something meaningful I can't select it.
I can see selection dialogues working that's nice.
I'm going to hit join and I'm joining the local game should work out.
See if it does.
Okay it's not let's have a look at our logs and see what might be causing this.
So we see here that it's still trying to use the net driver for steam to basically do the online connection
and it's actually failing to do that.
Well that's okay for now because we're only testing the menu but we are going to have to work around
that problem in future.
So for now let's leave it as it is and we will move on to the next step which is creating a struct.
So what do I mean by that.
Currently in our server rhodos H We are just setting the server name so if we go and have a look at
where we're doing that we're doing that in our main menu key where currently Let's have a look.
We've got our set server list set server list is then going through and it's setting the text from a
list of server names.
Now what we want is more rich information than just a list of server names we want a list of structures
that can give us both the server name and the current number of players and maybe also give us the user
name of the hosting player as well.
That would be pretty handy pretty useful.
So let's have a look at how we can achieve that.
The first step is to define that struct somewhere where we're going to define this struct up in the
head a file maybe.
We're not going to bother with a separate file for this so I'm just going to declare struct before our
main class now doing this in C++ would just be using a struct keyword and then basically setting up
like a class so it would be something like F server.
Data.
And then you could create the body of that struct.
Notice that visual studio has automatically added the semicolon that's required after the curly braces
for me.
But with visuals with his studio with unreel we need to do one more thing which is to put a you struck
out.
Macro in front of that struct and inside we want to do a generate.
Underscore body.
Just like we do for classes.
And that's just going to help us out with a few things now.
Next up we can fill it with the actual parameters that we're going to want.
We're going to want an F string of type.
Let's see.
We want an F string or to just be called the name.
That's going to be the name of the server.
We are going to want the number of players so that can be a you in eight what are you in 16 maybe needs
to be a small number of current players.
And I am going to have also a.
Int.
16 of total players or max players.
And finally we're going to have another F string for the user name.
So host.
User name.
And that should be everything that we need for this structure we should be able to set it up with all
of these things.
Now if we try building it at the moment it's not going to work because we need generated body am typing
incorrectly.
We see the classic you will have spotted that I made that mistake and I'm going to go ahead and rebuild
that based on having changed that generated body.
And sure enough that has succeeded.
So what we're going to need to do now is populate that struct.
So first of all we need to make sure that our set function sets server list actually doesn't take an
F string but rather takes at F as an array of f server data instead.
And that's going to lead to a complaint over in our let's see a game instance s.p. where we're currently
doing our set server list which currently takes the f string an inch Instead it needs to take our f
server data instead.
Take a ray of f server data which means that we're going to have to construct our server data right
here.
So I'm going to do this inside the loop going to create an F server data which as called it call this
property data.
And I'm going to pass that data in to our search result but not before having taken at what we currently
had as the string and put that as the source as the name.
So it's got to be data name equals.
This gets session idea string and then were going to pass the data into an ADD server name.
I forgot my semicolon which is why it's complaining at the moment and will build and see where that
works.
Obviously I have forgotten another semicolon here too much time programming in Python it seems.
I'm going to go ahead and build that.
But those of you don't know Python is language without semicolons it just uses the new lines to basically
infer that you meant a semicolon.
So I have a one more error here if I go to the topmost error you can see that my set server list is
currently taking the wrong type which should be taking a b f server data in it's t arrays so let's make
sure that's done as well and can just following the build errors here.
And we've got more build errors so let's see where they are going to go to the top most error which
is he.
And it is pointing to a high F string that you see hald how these types propagate around propagates
to our server name in the for loop and then this server name is going to be needing to be used correctly
which for now isn't being.
So we need the server name dot name I believe.
In fact this is just going to be called the server data.
So I go and call it server data dot name instead.
And that should do the trick hopefully.
So make sure that is rebuilt.
And it seems to be building successfully now.
Just double check that.
Yep sure enough successful build.
Don't know why the Squidward's are there.
It's saying that the survey data has no member name.
We know that to be a lie because there it is.
There's it's there it's name it just doesn't seem to like a struct and in Visual Studio.
But I'm sure a rebuild of the visual studio project file would probably fix those errors.
So we're going to want to go to our game instance now and populate the rest of the server data and in
actual fact I'm going to leave that as a little thing for you to fill out using the documentation of
f online sessions search result.
So here is the challenge and definition for you to update the UI in its entirety.
Fill out the rest of the data and bind the necessary components Egan need in the server rope and set
the components from the values of these struct.
Post video and have a go at this challenge.
Okay welcome back.
So let's start off with one thing at a time.
So the first thing we're going to set on data we've got the name we're going to set another thing so
data dot and we're gonna look for it.
What have we got.
Got current players.
Let's set the current players.
This will be from the search result.
Now there aren't many things in here we've got the actual session itself.
So we're going to go to the session and we can have a look at the.
Nope number of open public connections that's going to be at current players.
Next up we are going to go to Data dot max players.
This one is a little bit harder to find it's still on the search result still under the session but
it is under the session settings the session settings being the settings that we set when we created
the session and you can see here we've got all those sessions eldo session settings including the number
of public connections which is going to be the total number of public connections.
Next up we've got data dot and we have the host user name.
This one is again in search result dot session.
DOT.
And then it should be sesshin owning user name which is an F string so that matches.
So everything is hunky dory we should be able to compile that.
And while that's compiling I'm going to go and update my server row so I'm going to open up my server
row BP where we are going to be updating its UI opens on another window for some reason.
And here we've got our text.
We've got a spacer.
I dont want the space anymore or what I'm going to do is I'm going to use let the text itself be of
a certain proportion.
So I'm going to create a another text item in here by copying and pasting into the horizontal box and
whoops I seem to have crashed the server for some reason probably because I had to with the same name
which is not allowed.
So let's go ahead and restart that.
I'm going to pause while I restart you don't want to watch me restart an editor.
Okay so let's fire up that server again.
Hope is not going to crash this time hand.
I was opening up on my other window for some reason so I'm just going to avoid that by going to get
a text item and sticking it in a server row here then to remove the space.
I'm going to call this one the user name.
Or in fact let's call it what it is which is the host.
User.
So got a server name host user and the text block here which is going to be.
Let's see.
Well we're going to actually.
Probably do this as multiple text items so we can set them separately or we might not we might actually
have to construct this so I'm going to say this is.
The connection fraction.
Because it's the fraction for the number of connections.
So these are all text blocks.
What we're going to want to do is increase their size somewhat.
So I'm going to do this with let's see.
Do it by changing our Phil on most of these some going to do a fill for the server.
And I'm going to do a feel for the host use.
Now you notice they are taking up an equal amount of space.
I actually don't want this equal.
I want the server to take up twice as much space can change the number in filter too which means that
now it does take up twice as much space and as you can see when I reach size as long as it's not too
small then the server name is not law nor the username is not going to be smaller than that server name.
So now we can go ahead and get the binding to work so I'm going to go over into the server row dot H
and I am going to bind the server name and I'm going to bind the both as public.
I think I'll do so I'm going to have the server names already bound so I don't need to worry about that.
The other thing Im going to bind is what we called the host user so I'm going to copy it to make sure
that the binding is going to work by copying it over into Visual Studio and the next thing that we're
going to do is that fraction the connection fraction.
So if I select the connection fraction I'm going to copy that as well and I'm going to go over and paste
that in Visual Studio.
I'm going to fix up my indentation a little bit.
And compile save and build.
So while we're doing that we can go over and start writing the code in main cvp that's going to populate
this.
So we've got currently we're setting the text on the server name that is still fine and valid.
I'm going to copy this line so that we are using it for.
Also the user name.
So let's find the username in the head of file against copy that go to the c p p.
Change the user name set text from string and we are going to from stringing the server data dot then
it should be.
Why is it not giving me the one that I want.
Oh because it doesn't like the strings so I'm going to copy it.
It's called The Host a user name and I'm going to paste that in there.
Next up we are going to do something similar for our fraction so I'm going to copy the connection fraction
go over to the C P P and I'm going to set text from strain and it's going to be this time we are going
to probably do something like a format string.
What do I mean by a format string.
Well if you haven't seen it before then you can use this f string print F which basically is used very
much like our logging to do formatting of things like integers into strings.
So I'm going to be using the f string print F and let's go over to visual studio.
Make use of it.
So we are going to do string print F of the text.
This is getting a bit long for a line so I think I'm gonna split it out and it's going to be a percent
de slash percent DB Because we've tried to create a textual fraction and then we are going to provide
it with the server data.
What current players and be server data dot Macs play.
Like so now that's almost right.
Get the matching brackets in there and I'm going to actually cut out this string and say call this into
it f string variable called.
Fraction.
Text set are equal to this f print f result and I am going to pop that in to our set of the fraction
text which we are doing from string set text match up all my brackets and compile and see if this works.
So at the very least we've got a compilation that succeeded.
Let's see whether it has actually succeeded in creating a game that works.
Going to launch my two game instances in fact I'm going to launch three so that we can see that whether
the number is correct.
So here they all are ones going to be my host.
Then the other game I'm going to go to the join menu to try and join our host.
Let's see what shows up.
Okay not very pretty.
It looks like we may need to set up some minimums.
So I'm going to go ahead and set up some minimums for add text block or the maximum size so it looks
like there isn't an option here so I'm just going to do this by adjusting the fill at the moment so
I'm going to make both of these auto for now.
That's not how we want it.
We will correct this later down the line but we are going to make do with that for now.
So we're going to go ahead and launch up our three games again.
Again one is going to be the host and another one is going to join it.
Has the host I know I go and join the game.
Okay so we can see that here.
It is getting it be right.
Text we've got the I.D. we've got the user name but we've got the wrong numbers so we're going to have
to debug the numbers are going to do this in the next lecture at this stage because this lecturer is
running on a little bit long and we want to also fix the maximum size for usernames So this table can
look nice and neat.
So Pat yourselves on the back.
We've done great stuff here getting this menu to have the right text in there and in the next lecture
we'll see how we can meet up.